### Various scatterbrained thinking from Ingrid

A few weeks ago on a panel I moderated, Aaron Straup Cope commented (I'm paraphrasing here) that one of the objectives of building a civil society is having the ability to take things for granted. The water is just clean and drinkable. The roads are smooth and everyone follows the rules. The internet *just works*. Far from an indicator of a failing in intellectual curiosity, Cope viewed the tendency of a general public to neither comprehend nor care deeply about their infrastructure as kind of the end goal of those who build and maintain infrastructure.  

I'm not entirely sure I agree with Aaron on this point for a lot of reasons, but the reason maybe salient to this project is that it suggests a painfully cynical position on the social contract and infrastructure. There's a big difference between holding an expectation of a society taking systems for granted and an expectation or hope that a socity will accepting those systems on trust and faith. The latter is something that has to be earned, and it is not something that is always easy to earn. With computation and networked technology, companies tend to pursue trust and faith less through direct articulations of process or intentions and more through marketing-speak and rhetorical promises.  

The framing of internet history and infrastructure through a grimoire--a book of spells, a guide to the arcane magic world--is to some extent a logical next step in telling that story. There are references to magic and the occult all through computer history, and they're all slightly ridiculous. 